README.md, before:

<h2 align="center">
  <img src="https://static.jasp-stats.org/green_logo_dark_text.png" height=150/>
</h2>

<h5 align="center">
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org">Home</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/download/">Download</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/how-to-use-jasp/">How to use</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/blog/">Blog</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="http://github.com/jasp-stats/jasp-issues/issues">Issues</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/contact/">Contact</a>
</h5>

<div align="center">
  <a target="_blank" href="https://travis-ci.org/jasp-stats/jasp-desktop"><img style="vertical-align:middle" src="https://travis-ci.org/jasp-stats/jasp-desktop.svg?branch=boutinb-patch-1" alt="TravisCI"></a>
</div>

<p align="justify">
  <b>JASP</b> is a cross-platform software program which allows you to conduct statistical analyses in seconds, and without having to learn programming or risking a programming mistake. It aims to be a complete statistical package for both Bayesian and Frequentist statistical methods, that is easy to use and familiar to users of SPSS.
</p>

### Issue tracker
Did you find a bug in JASP or would really like something to be added to it?
Head on over to our [issue tracker](http://github.com/jasp-stats/jasp-issues/issues)!

### User guide

  - [JASP User Guide](Docs/user-guide/index.md)

### Citation details

<p align="justify">
  One of the best ways that you can support the JASP project is by citing it (given below in BiBTeX format)
</p>

    @MISC{JASP2019,
      AUTHOR = {{JASP Team}},
      TITLE  = {{JASP (Version 0.10.2)[Computer software]}},
      YEAR   = {2019},
      URL    = {https://jasp-stats.org/}
    }

<p align="justify">
  Citations are an important measure of how widely the software is used, and an important indicator to funding bodies of JASP’s relevance.
</p>

### Development

#### General 
  - [Licensing](Docs/development/jasp-licensing.md)
  
#### Building
  - [Guide to Building JASP](Docs/development/jasp-building-guide.md)
  - [Rebasing your Repository](Docs/development/git-guide.md)
  - [Nightly versions of JASP here](http://static.jasp-stats.org/Nightlies/) (built fresh every night)

#### Modules
  - [Creating a Module](Docs/development/jasp-adding-module.md)
  - [Making a QML Interface](Docs/development/jasp-qml-guide.md)
    
#### R
  - [Implementing Analyses in R](Docs/development/r-analyses-guide.md)
  - [The JASP R style guide](Docs/development/r-style-guide.md)
  - [The JASP Guide to Writing Analyses for Humans](Docs/development/jasp-human-guide.md)
  - [Writing Unit Tests for Analyses](JASP-Tests/README.md)
  - [The JASP R package list](https://jasp-stats.org/r-package-list/)

#### Translation
  - [Some guidance to make souce files ready for translation](Docs/development/jasp-translation-rules.md)

Commit message:

Added some more information about the translation of JASP

README.md, after:

<h2 align="center">
  <img src="https://static.jasp-stats.org/green_logo_dark_text.png" height=150/>
</h2>

<h5 align="center">
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org">Home</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/download/">Download</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/how-to-use-jasp/">How to use</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/blog/">Blog</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="http://github.com/jasp-stats/jasp-issues/issues">Issues</a> |
  <a target="_blank" href="https://jasp-stats.org/contact/">Contact</a>
</h5>

<div align="center">
  <a target="_blank" href="https://travis-ci.org/jasp-stats/jasp-desktop"><img style="vertical-align:middle" src="https://travis-ci.org/jasp-stats/jasp-desktop.svg?branch=boutinb-patch-1" alt="TravisCI"></a>
</div>

<p align="justify">
  <b>JASP</b> is a cross-platform software program which allows you to conduct statistical analyses in seconds, and without having to learn programming or risking a programming mistake. It aims to be a complete statistical package for both Bayesian and Frequentist statistical methods, that is easy to use and familiar to users of SPSS.
</p>

### Issue tracker
Did you find a bug in JASP or would really like something to be added to it?
Head on over to our [issue tracker](http://github.com/jasp-stats/jasp-issues/issues)!

### User guide

  - [JASP User Guide](Docs/user-guide/index.md)

### Citation details

<p align="justify">
  One of the best ways that you can support the JASP project is by citing it (given below in BiBTeX format)
</p>

    @MISC{JASP2019,
      AUTHOR = {{JASP Team}},
      TITLE  = {{JASP (Version 0.10.2)[Computer software]}},
      YEAR   = {2019},
      URL    = {https://jasp-stats.org/}
    }

<p align="justify">
  Citations are an important measure of how widely the software is used, and an important indicator to funding bodies of JASP’s relevance.
</p>

### Development

#### General 
  - [Licensing](Docs/development/jasp-licensing.md)
  
#### Building
  - [Guide to Building JASP](Docs/development/jasp-building-guide.md)
  - [Rebasing your Repository](Docs/development/git-guide.md)
  - [Nightly versions of JASP here](http://static.jasp-stats.org/Nightlies/) (built fresh every night)

#### Modules
  - [Creating a Module](Docs/development/jasp-adding-module.md)
  - [Making a QML Interface](Docs/development/jasp-qml-guide.md)
    
#### R
  - [Implementing Analyses in R](Docs/development/r-analyses-guide.md)
  - [The JASP R style guide](Docs/development/r-style-guide.md)
  - [The JASP Guide to Writing Analyses for Humans](Docs/development/jasp-human-guide.md)
  - [Writing Unit Tests for Analyses](JASP-Tests/README.md)
  - [The JASP R package list](https://jasp-stats.org/r-package-list/)

#### Translation
  - [New translations of JASP](Docs/development/translate.md)
  - [Prepare source files for translation](Docs/development/jasp-translation-rules.md)
