Docs/development/jasp-upgrade-qml.md, before:

Guide to setting up an upgrade file for a JASP Module
=====================================================

After you have [made a module](jasp-adding-module.md) and released it you might want to change some things.
The name of an option in your qml form for instance or the name of an analysis.  
To make this possible you can add a file to your module, `Upgrades.qml`, which you place under `ModuleName/inst/` next to your `Description.qml`.
Then whenever a jasp-file is loaded

# Upgrades.qml
This file contains a description of what upgrades your module offers, of which the simplest case is simply [renaming an analysis function](#rename-analysis). Further possibilities are [renaming an option](#rename-option) or [adding an option with a default value](#set-option). You can also [remove an option](#set-option) or even run custom [javascript](#javascript). And in all cases this can be done under certain [conditions](#conditionals) but that will probably be rarely used.

The rough structure of `Upgrades.qml` is an `Upgrades{}` QML Item with one or more `Upgrade{}` items in it. Each of these upgrades consists at least of a `functionName`, `fromVersion` and a `toVersion` field. The `functionName`-field specifies which analysis (called `function` here) is targeted while `fromVersion` and `toVersion` predictably define from which module-version it will be upgraded and to which one. 

If you are writing an `Upgrade` for an analysis as it was in JASP before version `0.15` see [migrating from oldschool modules](#migrating-from-oldschool-modules).

Just having a `functionName` and the two `version`s would do very little and the minimal sensible change you could make is adding `newFunctionName` with a new name for the analysis.
A very short example of that would be fixing the typo that someone could have made in 0.9 of a fictional module:
```qml
import QtQuick		2.12
import JASP.Module	1.0

Upgrades
{
	Upgrade
	{
		functionName: 		"Descrpitives"
		newFunctionName:	"Descriptives"
		fromVersion:		"0.9"
		toVersion:			"1.0"
	}
}
```

To actually change the options for the qml form belonging to the analysis/function in question one needs to add one or more `Change*` QML items as described in the rest of this document.

### Upgrade Order
Keep in mind that the order of `Upgrade`s within `Upgrades` is not important. However you should only ever have a single `Upgrade` with a particular combination of `functionName` and `fromVersion`, because those are used to find the right `Upgrade` to be applied to a particular version of an analysis. And these will be chained for multiple versions. So suppose you have an upgrade for an analysis from version `0.1` to `0.2`, and an upgrade from `0.3` to `0.4`. Then when you load an analysis made with module version `0.0.1` JASP is smart enough to figure that it should apply `0.1 -> 0.2` and then `0.3 -> 0.4`. So you do not need to specify an `Upgrade` for each version of your module, but just for the changes that need to be made. And JASP will chain them for you.

### Versions
Before JASP 0.15 was released the analyses were always saved with the version of JASP itself, so all analyses/modules in 0.14.1 would have that version. For 0.15 I manually made sure that the versions for each module were also 0.15 by setting that in `Description.qml` (this should be centralized to `DESCRIPTION` as [specified here](https://github.com/jasp-stats/INTERNAL-jasp/issues/1251)).

After that version is released the version you need to upgrade to will be the **version of the module** and not of JASP.

# Changing Options
Besides changing the name of your module or the function called for analysis you can also change the options stored in a jasp-file by older versions of your module. In case you aren't sure what is meant by options: these are the values stored in a json format by the QML form of your analysis. Each option has a name and this is the exact same `name:` as you specify in the QML forms. 

This also means that if you change the name of some option and the user loads a jasp-file made with an older version of your module it will not have a stored value for that particular option. And thus it takes whatever default value is defined in QML. 

The problem here is that the results shown in JASP are also loaded from the jasp-file and are of course based on whatever the options were when the user saved her or his file, and presumably the desired output as well. To make sure that loading a file with a newer version of your module will still lead to the same results as before you can add `Change*`s as specified below.

Something important to keep in mind is that a list of these `Changes` will be applied in the order you've specified them. As opposed to the `Upgrade`s where they are executed in [order of versions](#upgrade-order).

For all following examples the full QML file would look something like:
```qml
import QtQuick		2.12
import JASP.Module	1.0

Upgrades
{
	Upgrade
	{
		functionName:	"SomeAnalysis"
		fromVersion:	"0.1"
		toVersion:		"0.2"
 
		//	Here there would be Change*{} Items, such as:
		ChangeRename { from: "vars"; to: "variables" }
	}
}
```
To keep the examples nice and short the `import` statements and the surrounding `Upgrades{...}` item will be left out from here on out.

## Rename Option
The simplest case is if you renamed an option and you would like that whatever value was saved is also used for the now differently named option on loading with the newer version. For this you add a `ChangeRename` item that specifies what should be renamed to what, which would look something like:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRename
	{
		from:	"vars"
		to:		"variables"
	}
}
```
In the above example the option "vars" in version 0.1 of SomeAnalysis is renamed to "variables" in version 0.2 of SomeAnalysis. You could add more renames or other changes to `Upgrade` as needed.
If you've renamed the `value`s of `RadioButton` this cannot be solved by `ChangeRename`, however it is easily solved by `ChangeJS` as is shown under [renaming radiobuttons](#renaming-radiobuttons).

## Copy Option
This is exactly the same as [rename option](#rename-option) except that you use a `ChangeCopy` item and it well, makes a copy instead of renaming. It would look like this:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeCopy
	{
		from:	"vars"
		to:		"variables"
	}
}
```

## Set Option
Sometimes you might want to set an option to something else and with the `ChangeSetValue` you can give a value that should be set. This can be a javascript object, array, string, bool or number. Which one you should set depends on the kind of qml-item that should handle the value. Several examples follow:

```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "variables";	jsonValue:	[ "contNormal", "contExpon" ];	} //Here we set an array as the new value for variables.
	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "textOpt";		jsonValue:	"Hello World";					} //A string
	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "maxVal";		jsonValue:	0.1;							} //A number
	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "showPlot";		jsonValue:	false;							} //A boolean
	ChangeSetValue	
	{ 
		name:		"complicatedOption";	
		jsonValue:							//We can also give a whole object here and this can be quite useful if the qml-item needs something more complicated
		{
			someProperty:	"a string"
			aProperty:		1.2
		}
	}
}
```
Of course, the array of values could contain objects or the other values, basically as varied as the [JSON standard](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) allows.
Setting options like this on it's own is likely of limited use but if combined with [conditionals](#conditionals) they have quite the potential.


## Javascript
There are cases where the above simpler `Change*` items aren't flexible enough, even painfully using [conditionals](#conditionals), where the solution would be to run a function to determine the desired new value for an option. This could be merging two arrays of values into one or transforming the value of a `RadioButtons{...}` into booleans for `CheckBox{...}`'s. 

For this you can use the `ChangeJS` item. In it you specify the `name` of the option where the result of `jsFunction` should be written. 
While `jsFunction` gets, as its single argument, the entire `options` list as it is at *that moment* (because previous changes are of course already applied).
This way you can be a bit more flexible than in `ChangeSetValue` for instance. But you have to be careful with your code as you would not want to have your upgradecode crashing on somebodies computer and messing up there research documents... Or making it impossible for them to upgrade it beyond that point at least.

Here follows an example where a radiobutton with three values is converted into two checkboxes:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeJS
	{
		name:			"checkboxDoSomething";
		jsFunction:		function(options) { return options["radiobuttons"] === "something";	}
	}

	ChangeJS
	{
		name:			"checkboxDoSomethingElse";
		jsFunction:		function(options) { return options["radiobuttons"] === "somethingElse";	}
	}
}
```

Many more examples could be given here but the basic takeaway is that `jsFunction` gets an `options` javascript-object consisting of named entries.
Each name is the same `name:` as each item in the qml form for your analysis has and the value is whatever kind of value such an item stores.
If you've nested QML Items within each other that doesn't mean that they will be nested in `options`, in fact everything will be on the same level.
An example of the options from a very simple form with a `Checkbox` and a `TextField` would be:
```json
{
	"checkboxA":	true,
	"textEntry":	"some nice string"
}
```
The `textEntry` textfield could be inside `checkboxA` in the form or next to it, for both cases the `options` would look like they do now.
You can access the information in it in any way you like and you can also change it completely. But those changes won't go back to JASP.
Only the returnvalue of `jsFunction` is used and it is *always* stored in the options under the name you gave in `ChangeJS { name: ... }`.

### Renaming RadioButtons
A very good example of `ChangeJS` being used productively is when you've renamed the `value` of one or more `RadioButton`s. These are stored as the `value` of the corresponding `RadioButtonGroup`. Suppose the previous version of the module had:
```qml
RadioButtonGroup
{
	name:	"someRadios"
	RadioButton { value: "aOption"; title: "A" }
	RadioButton { value: "bOption"; title: "B" }
	RadioButton { value: "cOption"; title: "C" }
}
```
And you want to change it to:
```qml
RadioButtonGroup
{
	name:	"someRadios"
	RadioButton { value: "optionA"; title: "A" }
	RadioButton { value: "optionB"; title: "B" }
	RadioButton { value: "optionC"; title: "C" }
}
```
This can be easily achieved through:
```qml
ChangeJS
{
	name:		"someRadios"
	jsFunction:	function(options)
	{
		switch(options["someRadios"])
		{
			case "aOption":	return "optionA";
			case "bOption":	return "optionB";
			case "cOption":	return "optionC";
		}
	}
}
```

### Encoding or decoding columns
In certain cases you might need to decode and encode the columns used in a JASP file during your upgrade step. This requires some functioncalls and these only make sense inside `ChangeJS` because only at that moment is the correct dataset for your `options` actually loaded. The following functions have been made available in an object called `qmlUtils` and those are:
- `qmlUtils.encodeAllColumnNames(string)`: converts all occurences of original columnnames in `string` into encoded  columnames.
- `qmlUtils.decodeAllColumnNames(string)`: converts all occurences of encoded  columnnames in `string` into original columnames.
- `qmlUtils.encodeJson(jsonVal, qmlItem)`: converts all occurences of original columnnames in the `jsonVal` into encoded columnames. You need to add a reference to any qml-item as `qmlItem`, I recommend using the `ChangeJS` you are writing.
- `qmlUtils.decodeJson(jsonVal, qmlItem)`: converts all occurences of encoded  columnnames in the `jsonVal` into original columnames. The same goes here for `qmlItem`.
All of the above return the changed string/json.

## Remove option
For completion's sake a `ChangeRemove` item was added and it allows for an option to be completely removed from an option list if it isn't necessary anymore.
But honestly, this is not very useful because it would be silently dropped by JASP anyway. However, you can use it like:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRemove
	{
		name:	"uselessOption"
	}
}
```

## Conditionals
There are scenarios where you might only want to apply a certain `Change*` when certain other values are set to something in particular.
You could do this through `ChangeJS` item, but that would mean you would have to copy the code for each new value or some other complicated way of fixing that.

Instead you could add a `condition:` entry to any of your `Change*` items specifying whether you would want the change to be applied or not.
The default value for it is `null` and in that case it is interpreted as `true`, just as when you set it to `true` manually.

It could also have function like the `jsFunction` from [ChangeJS](#javascript) that returns a boolean and can check the whole options list. This can be used in many ways but a rather random example will follow just to get a feel of the possibilities. It shows how you can reuse the same `condition` function multiple times, but keep in mind that it will need to run every time. So if `bogusText` changes between `weirdRename` and and anything that uses the value of `weirdRename.condition` it won't return the same value and those changes might not be applied.
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRename
	{
		id:			weirdRename

		//Only rename egg to easter if an option called "bogusText" equals "easterEgg":
		condition:	function(options) { return options["bogusText"] === "easterEgg";  }
		from:		"egg"
		to:			"easter"
	}

	ChangeCopy
	{
		//reuse the condition from before to copy the value from easter back to egg.
		condition:	weirdRename.condition
		from:		"easter"
		to:			"egg"
	}

	ChangeRemove
	{
		//And remove easter again to make this all entirely useless
		condition:	function(options) { return weirdRename.condition(options); }
		name:		"easter"
	}
}
```

You could also set it like:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRename
	{
		id:			weirdRename
		from:		"egg";		
		to:			"easter";
		condition:	false //It will never be applied. But if you change this value programmatically the value will be kept as long as you module & JASP run.
		//This means that after it is changed later any upgrades will then have this Change applied!
	}

	ChangeRemove
	{
		id: 		dangerousChange
		name:		itDoesntReallyMatter
		condition:	function(options)
		{
			weirdRename.condition = true; 
			// So loading the first SomeAnalysis being upgraded this run did not have the weird rename.
			// But because this condition is checked *afterwards* the next SomeAnalysis-upgrade will have the rename...
			// Because we've just set it to "true" and the value is kept.
			// It is very unlikely this is ever desirable but I'm showing it here to make modulewriters aware of the pitfalls of hacky code.
			return false;
		}
	}
}
```

And now for a useful example of something someone might actually want to do and a transposition of an actual upgrade done archaically in JASP:
```qml
Upgrade
{
  // For version 0.12 we changed a lot of analyses and this also simplified some forms a bit.
  functionName:	"Anova"
  fromVersion:	"0.11.1"
  toVersion:	"0.12"

	// If homogeneityTests was set false then that meant that some other options were ignored, from 0.12 this option was removed and those three checkboxes are used directly.

	ChangeSetValue
	{
		id:			homogeneityCorrections
		condition:	function(options) { return !options["homogeneityCorrections"]; }
		name:		"homogeneityNone"
		jsonValue:	true
	}

	ChangeSetValue
	{
		condition:	homogeneityCorrections.condition
		name:		"homogeneityBrown"
		jsonValue:	false
	}

	ChangeSetValue
	{
		condition:	homogeneityCorrections.condition
		name:		"homogeneityWelch"
		jsonValue:	false
	}

}
```

## Migrating from Oldschool Modules
This process of upgrading modules via Upgrades.qml and having all the code for a single module in a single separate repository and `git submodule` was introduced with version `0.15` of JASP. Because there were no modules then, there were also no module-versions and so the version of JASP is used.
This is important to keep in mind, because it means that the basic version for each module is actually `0.14.3`.
This because while the latest version that we had displayed on [our website](https://jasp-stats.org) was `0.14.1` and you might expect that to be the correct version to start off from. But we actually also silently released a `0.14.3` to fix a linux-specific problem and by using that version in combination with the "version chaining" described in the introduction of this manual it will resolve nicely.

Because the componentnumbers of each version are all separate numbers that means that the first version of your module, if it was already present in JASP before `0.15` should be `0.15` or at `0.>14` or `>0.?.?`. And in that case the easiest scenario is choosing `0.15`.

The modules were also renamed from for instance "Reliability" to "jaspReliability" but JASP already handles that for you so you can be sure the right module is selected on loading.

Commit message:

Some documentation and rudimentary form warning support

Docs/development/jasp-upgrade-qml.md, after:

Guide to setting up an upgrade file for a JASP Module
=====================================================

After you have [made a module](jasp-adding-module.md) and released it you might want to change some things.
The name of an option in your qml form for instance or the name of an analysis.  
To make this possible you can add a file to your module, `Upgrades.qml`, which you place under `ModuleName/inst/` next to your `Description.qml`.
Then whenever a jasp-file is loaded

# Upgrades.qml
This file contains a description of what upgrades your module offers, of which the simplest case is simply [renaming an analysis function](#rename-analysis). Further possibilities are [renaming an option](#rename-option) or [adding an option with a default value](#set-option). You can also [remove an option](#set-option) or even run custom [javascript](#javascript). And in all cases this can be done under certain [conditions](#conditionals) but that might only be rarely used. Furthermore there is the possibility of showing [messages](#messages) to the user which can be useful in the case of breaking changes.

The rough structure of `Upgrades.qml` is an `Upgrades{}` QML Item with one or more `Upgrade{}` items in it. Each of these upgrades consists at least of a `functionName`, `fromVersion` and a `toVersion` field. The `functionName`-field specifies which analysis (called `function` here) is targeted while `fromVersion` and `toVersion` predictably define from which module-version it will be upgraded and to which one. 

If you are writing an `Upgrade` for an analysis as it was in JASP before version `0.15` see [migrating from oldschool modules](#migrating-from-oldschool-modules).

Just having a `functionName` and the two `version`s would do very little and the minimal sensible change you could make is adding `newFunctionName` with a new name for the analysis.
A very short example of that would be fixing the typo that someone could have made in 0.9 of a fictional module:
```qml
import QtQuick		2.12
import JASP.Module	1.0

Upgrades
{
	Upgrade
	{
		functionName: 		"Descrpitives"
		newFunctionName:	"Descriptives"
		fromVersion:		"0.9"
		toVersion:			"1.0"
	}
}
```

To actually change the options for the qml form belonging to the analysis/function in question one needs to add one or more `Change*` QML items as described in the rest of this document.

### Upgrade Order
Keep in mind that the order of `Upgrade`s within `Upgrades` is not important. However you should only ever have a single `Upgrade` with a particular combination of `functionName` and `fromVersion`, because those are used to find the right `Upgrade` to be applied to a particular version of an analysis. And these will be chained for multiple versions. So suppose you have an upgrade for an analysis from version `0.1` to `0.2`, and an upgrade from `0.3` to `0.4`. Then when you load an analysis made with module version `0.0.1` JASP is smart enough to figure that it should apply `0.1 -> 0.2` and then `0.3 -> 0.4`. So you do not need to specify an `Upgrade` for each version of your module, but just for the changes that need to be made. And JASP will chain them for you.

### Versions
The module author or maintainer makes sure that the version in `DESCRIPTION` and `Description.qml` is updated at least for every new version of JASP.
If, of course, any changes were made, but this is the usual case.
Those versions are then used to specify the `to` and `from` fields.

#### Older versions (<=0.15)
Before JASP 0.15 was released the analyses were always saved with the version of JASP itself, so all analyses/modules in 0.14.1 would have that version. For 0.15 I manually made sure that the versions for each module were also 0.15 by setting that in `Description.qml` (this should be centralized to `DESCRIPTION` as [specified here](https://github.com/jasp-stats/INTERNAL-jasp/issues/1251)).

Since we do try to keep the versionnumber of the module the same as that in JASP it might not be obvious but the versions you need to specify corrects upgrades are those **versions of the module** and not those of JASP.

# Changing Options
Besides changing the name of your module or the function called for analysis you can also change the options stored in a jasp-file by older versions of your module. In case you aren't sure what is meant by options: these are the values stored in a json format by the QML form of your analysis. Each option has a name and this is the exact same `name:` as you specify in the QML forms. 

This also means that if you change the name of some option and the user loads a jasp-file made with an older version of your module it will not have a stored value for that particular option. And thus it takes whatever default value is defined in QML. 

The problem here is that the results shown in JASP are also loaded from the jasp-file and are of course based on whatever the options were when the user saved her or his file, and presumably the desired output as well. To make sure that loading a file with a newer version of your module will still lead to the same results as before you can add `Change*`s as specified below.

Something important to keep in mind is that a list of these `Changes` will be applied in the order you've specified them. As opposed to the `Upgrade`s where they are executed in [order of versions](#upgrade-order).

For all following examples the full QML file would look something like:
```qml
import QtQuick		2.12
import JASP.Module	1.0

Upgrades
{
	Upgrade
	{
		functionName:	"SomeAnalysis"
		fromVersion:	"0.1"
		toVersion:		"0.2"
 
		//	Here there would be Change*{} Items, such as:
		ChangeRename { from: "vars"; to: "variables" }
	}
}
```
To keep the examples nice and short the `import` statements and the surrounding `Upgrades{...}` item will be left out from here on out.

## Rename Option
The simplest case is if you renamed an option and you would like that whatever value was saved is also used for the now differently named option on loading with the newer version. For this you add a `ChangeRename` item that specifies what should be renamed to what, which would look something like:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRename
	{
		from:	"vars"
		to:		"variables"
	}
}
```
In the above example the option "vars" in version 0.1 of SomeAnalysis is renamed to "variables" in version 0.2 of SomeAnalysis. You could add more renames or other changes to `Upgrade` as needed.
If you've renamed the `value`s of `RadioButton` this cannot be solved by `ChangeRename`, however it is easily solved by `ChangeJS` as is shown under [renaming radiobuttons](#renaming-radiobuttons).

## Copy Option
This is exactly the same as [rename option](#rename-option) except that you use a `ChangeCopy` item and it well, makes a copy instead of renaming. It would look like this:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeCopy
	{
		from:	"vars"
		to:		"variables"
	}
}
```

## Set Option
Sometimes you might want to set an option to something else and with the `ChangeSetValue` you can give a value that should be set. This can be a javascript object, array, string, bool or number. Which one you should set depends on the kind of qml-item that should handle the value. Several examples follow:

```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "variables";	jsonValue:	[ "contNormal", "contExpon" ];	} //Here we set an array as the new value for variables.
	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "textOpt";		jsonValue:	"Hello World";					} //A string
	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "maxVal";		jsonValue:	0.1;							} //A number
	ChangeSetValue	{ name: "showPlot";		jsonValue:	false;							} //A boolean
	ChangeSetValue	
	{ 
		name:		"complicatedOption";	
		jsonValue:							//We can also give a whole object here and this can be quite useful if the qml-item needs something more complicated
		{
			someProperty:	"a string"
			aProperty:		1.2
		}
	}
}
```
Of course, the array of values could contain objects or the other values, basically as varied as the [JSON standard](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) allows.
Setting options like this on it's own is likely of limited use but if combined with [conditionals](#conditionals) they have quite the potential.


## Javascript
There are cases where the above simpler `Change*` items aren't flexible enough, even painfully using [conditionals](#conditionals), where the solution would be to run a function to determine the desired new value for an option. This could be merging two arrays of values into one or transforming the value of a `RadioButtons{...}` into booleans for `CheckBox{...}`'s. 

For this you can use the `ChangeJS` item. In it you specify the `name` of the option where the result of `jsFunction` should be written. 
While `jsFunction` gets, as its single argument, the entire `options` list as it is at *that moment* (because previous changes are of course already applied).
This way you can be a bit more flexible than in `ChangeSetValue` for instance. But you have to be careful with your code as you would not want to have your upgradecode crashing on somebodies computer and messing up there research documents... Or making it impossible for them to upgrade it beyond that point at least.

Here follows an example where a radiobutton with three values is converted into two checkboxes:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeJS
	{
		name:			"checkboxDoSomething";
		jsFunction:		function(options) { return options["radiobuttons"] === "something";	}
	}

	ChangeJS
	{
		name:			"checkboxDoSomethingElse";
		jsFunction:		function(options) { return options["radiobuttons"] === "somethingElse";	}
	}
}
```

Many more examples could be given here but the basic takeaway is that `jsFunction` gets an `options` javascript-object consisting of named entries.
Each name is the same `name:` as each item in the qml form for your analysis has and the value is whatever kind of value such an item stores.
If you've nested QML Items within each other that doesn't mean that they will be nested in `options`, in fact everything will be on the same level.
An example of the options from a very simple form with a `Checkbox` and a `TextField` would be:
```json
{
	"checkboxA":	true,
	"textEntry":	"some nice string"
}
```
The `textEntry` textfield could be inside `checkboxA` in the form or next to it, for both cases the `options` would look like they do now.
You can access the information in it in any way you like and you can also change it completely. But those changes won't go back to JASP.
Only the returnvalue of `jsFunction` is used and it is *always* stored in the options under the name you gave in `ChangeJS { name: ... }`.

### Renaming RadioButtons
A very good example of `ChangeJS` being used productively is when you've renamed the `value` of one or more `RadioButton`s. These are stored as the `value` of the corresponding `RadioButtonGroup`. Suppose the previous version of the module had:
```qml
RadioButtonGroup
{
	name:	"someRadios"
	RadioButton { value: "aOption"; title: "A" }
	RadioButton { value: "bOption"; title: "B" }
	RadioButton { value: "cOption"; title: "C" }
}
```
And you want to change it to:
```qml
RadioButtonGroup
{
	name:	"someRadios"
	RadioButton { value: "optionA"; title: "A" }
	RadioButton { value: "optionB"; title: "B" }
	RadioButton { value: "optionC"; title: "C" }
}
```
This can be easily achieved through:
```qml
ChangeJS
{
	name:		"someRadios"
	jsFunction:	function(options)
	{
		switch(options["someRadios"])
		{
			case "aOption":	return "optionA";
			case "bOption":	return "optionB";
			case "cOption":	return "optionC";
		}
	}
}
```

### Encoding or decoding columns
In certain cases you might need to decode and encode the columns used in a JASP file during your upgrade step. This requires some functioncalls and these only make sense inside `ChangeJS` because only at that moment is the correct dataset for your `options` actually loaded. The following functions have been made available in an object called `qmlUtils` and those are:
- `qmlUtils.encodeAllColumnNames(string)`: converts all occurences of original columnnames in `string` into encoded  columnames.
- `qmlUtils.decodeAllColumnNames(string)`: converts all occurences of encoded  columnnames in `string` into original columnames.
- `qmlUtils.encodeJson(jsonVal, qmlItem)`: converts all occurences of original columnnames in the `jsonVal` into encoded columnames. You need to add a reference to any qml-item as `qmlItem`, I recommend using the `ChangeJS` you are writing.
- `qmlUtils.decodeJson(jsonVal, qmlItem)`: converts all occurences of encoded  columnnames in the `jsonVal` into original columnames. The same goes here for `qmlItem`.
All of the above return the changed string/json.

## Remove option
For completion's sake a `ChangeRemove` item was added and it allows for an option to be completely removed from an option list if it isn't necessary anymore.
But honestly, this is not very useful because it would be silently dropped by JASP anyway. However, you can use it like:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRemove
	{
		name:	"uselessOption"
	}
}
```

## Conditionals
There are scenarios where you might only want to apply a certain `Change*` when certain other values are set to something in particular.
You could do this through `ChangeJS` item, but that would mean you would have to copy the code for each new value or some other complicated way of fixing that.

Instead you could add a `condition:` entry to any of your `Change*` items specifying whether you would want the change to be applied or not.
The default value for it is `null` and in that case it is interpreted as `true`, just as when you set it to `true` manually.

It could also have function like the `jsFunction` from [ChangeJS](#javascript) that returns a boolean and can check the whole options list. This can be used in many ways but a rather random example will follow just to get a feel of the possibilities. It shows how you can reuse the same `condition` function multiple times, but keep in mind that it will need to run every time. So if `bogusText` changes between `weirdRename` and and anything that uses the value of `weirdRename.condition` it won't return the same value and those changes might not be applied.
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRename
	{
		id:			weirdRename

		//Only rename egg to easter if an option called "bogusText" equals "easterEgg":
		condition:	function(options) { return options["bogusText"] === "easterEgg";  }
		from:		"egg"
		to:			"easter"
	}

	ChangeCopy
	{
		//reuse the condition from before to copy the value from easter back to egg.
		condition:	weirdRename.condition
		from:		"easter"
		to:			"egg"
	}

	ChangeRemove
	{
		//And remove easter again to make this all entirely useless
		condition:	function(options) { return weirdRename.condition(options); }
		name:		"easter"
	}
}
```

You could also set it like:
```qml
Upgrade
{
	functionName: "SomeAnalysis";	fromVersion: "0.1";		toVersion: "0.2";

	ChangeRename
	{
		id:			weirdRename
		from:		"egg";		
		to:			"easter";
		condition:	false //It will never be applied. But if you change this value programmatically the value will be kept as long as you module & JASP run.
		//This means that after it is changed later any upgrades will then have this Change applied!
	}

	ChangeRemove
	{
		id: 		dangerousChange
		name:		itDoesntReallyMatter
		condition:	function(options)
		{
			weirdRename.condition = true; 
			// So loading the first SomeAnalysis being upgraded this run did not have the weird rename.
			// But because this condition is checked *afterwards* the next SomeAnalysis-upgrade will have the rename...
			// Because we've just set it to "true" and the value is kept.
			// It is very unlikely this is ever desirable but I'm showing it here to make modulewriters aware of the pitfalls of hacky code.
			return false;
		}
	}
}
```

And now for a useful example of something someone might actually want to do and a transposition of an actual upgrade done archaically in JASP:
```qml
Upgrade
{
  // For version 0.12 we changed a lot of analyses and this also simplified some forms a bit.
  functionName:	"Anova"
  fromVersion:	"0.11.1"
  toVersion:	"0.12"

	// If homogeneityTests was set false then that meant that some other options were ignored, from 0.12 this option was removed and those three checkboxes are used directly.

	ChangeSetValue
	{
		id:			homogeneityCorrections
		condition:	function(options) { return !options["homogeneityCorrections"]; }
		name:		"homogeneityNone"
		jsonValue:	true
	}

	ChangeSetValue
	{
		condition:	homogeneityCorrections.condition
		name:		"homogeneityBrown"
		jsonValue:	false
	}

	ChangeSetValue
	{
		condition:	homogeneityCorrections.condition
		name:		"homogeneityWelch"
		jsonValue:	false
	}

}
```

## Messages
Sometimes there is no way to avoid breaking changes, or they might even be desirable, but nobody likes it when rerunning analyses return different results. At other times new interfaces/options require extra work from the user because some particular feature became mandatory but has no clear default to derive from previous versions (and thus sets a sensible default or something).
For this the `msg` field is meant and it allows the module author to add a warning to components or the form entirely.

## Migrating from Oldschool Modules
This process of upgrading modules via Upgrades.qml and having all the code for a single module in a single separate repository and `git submodule` was introduced with version `0.15` of JASP. Because there were no modules then, there were also no module-versions and so the version of JASP is used.
This is important to keep in mind, because it means that the basic version for each module is actually `0.14.3`.
This because while the latest version that we had displayed on [our website](https://jasp-stats.org) was `0.14.1` and you might expect that to be the correct version to start off from. But we actually also silently released a `0.14.3` to fix a linux-specific problem and by using that version in combination with the "version chaining" described in the introduction of this manual it will resolve nicely.

Because the componentnumbers of each version are all separate numbers that means that the first version of your module, if it was already present in JASP before `0.15` should be `0.15` or at `0.>14` or `>0.?.?`. And in that case the easiest scenario is choosing `0.15`.

The modules were also renamed from for instance "Reliability" to "jaspReliability" but JASP already handles that for you so you can be sure the right module is selected on loading.
