Resources/Help/analyses/auditbayesianevaluation.md, before:

Bayesian Evaluation
==========================

The Bayesian evaluation analysis allows the auditor to evaluate an audit sample and infer a statistical conclusion about the total misstatement in the population while incorporating prior knowledge that is available. 

----

Default input options
-------

#### Population materiality
The population materiality is the maximum tolerable error in the total population. This can be either an absolute value, or a value that quantifies the materiality as a percentage relative to the total value of the population.

- Absolute: Enter your population materiality as a monetary value.
- Relative: Enter your population materiality as a percentage relative to the total value.

#### Population
Here you can provide the summary statistics about the population.

- Size: The total number of observations in the total population.
- Value: The total value of the population in monetary units.

#### Audit Risk
The audit risk determines the risk that the auditor is willing to take to give an incorrect judgment with regards to the fairness of the transactions in the population. The audit risk is the inverse of the confidence of the analysis (audit risk = 1 - confidence).

- Confidence: The confidence level for your required statistical statement.

#### Annotation method
Before the start of the evaluation stage the auditor has annotated their selected transactions. This can be done in two ways: evaluation using audit values, or evaluation by determining whether the transactions are correct or incorrect.

- Audit values: When selected, you will have to annotate the selection with the observations' true values. When correct, fill in the exact same value as is stated in the book value of the transaction. This approach is recommended when the transactions have a monetary value.
- Correct / Incorrect: When selected, you will have to annotate the selection with an indicator for whether the observations are correct (0) or incorrect (1). This approach is recommended when your transactions do not have a monetary value.
    - Use summary statistics: When selected, the auditor can use only the sample size and the found errors to make an inference.

----

Advanced input options
-------

#### Inherent risk and control risk
The assessments of the inherent risk and control risk (Audit Risk Model) can be provided here to reduce the required evidence from the test. They are mapped to probabilities according to standards, but can also be mapped according to custom preferences.

- High: 100%
- Medium: 60%
- Low: 50%
- Custom

When both risk assessments are set to High (100%) the audit risk model is not used to adjust the detection risk.

#### Expected errors
The expected errors are the tolerable errors that can be found in the sample. A sample size is calculated so that, when the number of expected errors is found in the sample, the desired confidence is retained.

- Absolute: Enter your expected errors as a monetary value (e.g., $1.000 in a total balance of $1.000.000).
- Relative: Enter your expected errors as a percentage relative to the total size of the selection.

#### Explanatory text
Enables explanatory text throughout the workflow to help you interpret the statistical results and procedure.

#### Estimation method
The estimation method determines how the results from your sample are extrapolated to the population.

- Beta: Use the beta posterior distribution to evaluate the sample.
- Gamma: Use the gamma posterior distribution to evaluate the sample.
- Beta-binomial: Use the beta-binomial posterior distribution to evaluate the sample.

#### Area under posterior
- Credible bound: Gives an (upper) estimate of the maximum error in the population.
- Credible interval: Gives an (upper and lower) estimate of maximum error in the population.

----

Default output
-------

#### Evaluation summary
This table is the default output for the evaluation stage.

- Materiality: The population materiality.
- Sample size: The size of the selected subset.
- Errors: The number of erroneous elements in the selection.
- Total taining: The sum of the proportional errors.
- x-% Confidence bound: The estimate of the maximum misstatement in percentages.
- Maximum misstatement: The estimate of the projected maximum misstatement.

----

Advanced output (statistics)
-------

#### Most likely error (MLE)
Adds a cell to the evaluation summary table containing an estimate of the errors in the total population.

#### Evidence ratio
Shows the posterior odds (after seeing a sample) in favor of the null hypothesis of tolerable misstatement.

#### Bayes factor
Shows the gain of evidence (after seeing a sample) in favor of the null hypothesis of tolerable misstatement.

----

Advanced output (tables)
-------

#### Prior and posterior descriptives
Produces a table in which the prior and posterior distribution are summarized through several statistics, such as their functional form, their prior and posterior probabilities and odds, and the shift between these.

----


Advanced output (plots)
-------

#### Evaluation information
Produces a bar chart comparing the materiality, maximum misstatement and most likely error (MLE).

#### Correlation plot
Produces a scatter plot comparing book values of the selection against their audit values. Observations that are in error are colored in red.

#### Prior and posterior
Produces a plot that shows the prior distribution alongside the posterior distribution induced by the data.

- x-axis limit: Change the limit for the x-axis in the plot.
- Expected posterior: Adds the expected posterior to the prior graph. The expected posterior has its upper credible bound just below the materiality.
- Additional info: Adds a red dot for the materiality, and a gray dot for the expected errors to the graph.
- Shade: Select which area under the posterior distribution to shade. 

----

R Packages
-------

- jfa

----

References
-------

AICPA (2017). <i>Audit Guide: Audit Sampling</i>. American Institute of Certied Public Accountants.

Derks, K (2020). jfa: Bayesian and Classical Audit Sampling. R package version 0.1.0.

Interdepartementaal Overlegorgaan Departementale Accountantsdiensten (2007). <i>Handboek Auditing Rijksoverheid 2007</i>, established by the Interdepartementaal Overlegorgaan Departementale Accountantsdiensten (IODAD) on March 28, 2006, and May 29, 2007.

Commit message:

Audit module for 0.14.1 (#4411)
* whops remove all that stuff

* Refresh the data files and set some other default options

Resources/Help/analyses/auditbayesianevaluation.md, after:

Bayesian Evaluation of an Audit Sample
==========================

The Bayesian evaluation analysis allows the auditor to evaluate an audit sample and infer a statistical conclusion about the total misstatement in the population while incorporating prior knowledge that is available. 

----

Default input options
-------

#### Sampling objectives
In order to start the analysis you must specify the objectives that have to be achieved with the sampling procedure. The sampling objectives influence the course of the procedure. They can currently be one of two objectives:
- **Test against a performance materiality:** Also called the upper error limit, the tolerable deviation rate, or the tolerable misstatement, the performance materiality is the amount established by the auditor below the normal materiality of the financial reports to decrease the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetectable misstatements exceeds the materiality of financial reports as a whole. In the statistical analysis, the performance materiality represents the upper bound of tolerable misstatement in the population to be tested. By testing against a performance materiality, you are able to plan a sample in order to collect evidence for or against the statement that the population as a whole does not contain misstatements that are considered material (i.e., are greater than the upper bound of tolerable misstatement). You should enable this objective when you want to find out whether the population contains misstatements that are greater than a certain limit (the performance materiality) using a sample of the population. A lower performance materiality will result in a higher required sample size. Vice versa, a higher performance materiality will result in a lower required sample size.
- **Obtain a required minimum precision:** The precision is a measure of how much certainty there is in the estimate of the misstatement from testing a particular characteristic of a sample at a given level of sampling risk. In the statistical analysis, the precision is represented by the difference between the estimated most likely error and the upper bound on the misstatement. By enabling this sampling objective, you are be able to plan a sample so that the difference between the estimated most likely error and the upper bound on the misstatement is reduced to a minimum percentage. You should enable this objective if you are interested in making an estimate of the population misstatement with a certain accuracy. A lower minimum required precision will result in a higher required sample size. Vice versa, a higher minimum required precision will result in a lower required sample size.

#### Population
Here you can provide the summary statistics about the population.

- Size: The total number of observations in the total population.
- Value: The total value of the population in monetary units.

#### Audit Risk
The audit risk determines the risk that the auditor is willing to take to give an incorrect judgment with regards to the fairness of the transactions in the population. The audit risk is the inverse of the confidence of the analysis (audit risk = 1 - confidence).

- Confidence: The confidence level for your required statistical statement.

#### Annotation method
Before the start of the evaluation stage the auditor has annotated their selected transactions. This can be done in two ways: evaluation using audit values, or evaluation by determining whether the transactions are correct or incorrect.

- Audit values: When selected, you will have to annotate the selection with the observations' true values. When correct, fill in the exact same value as is stated in the book value of the transaction. This approach is recommended when the transactions have a monetary value.
- Correct / Incorrect: When selected, you will have to annotate the selection with an indicator for whether the observations are correct (0) or incorrect (1). This approach is recommended when your transactions do not have a monetary value.
    - Use summary statistics: When selected, the auditor can use only the sample size and the found errors to make an inference.

----

Advanced input options
-------

#### Inherent risk and control risk
The assessments of the inherent risk and control risk (Audit Risk Model) can be provided here to reduce the required evidence from the test. They are mapped to probabilities according to standards, but can also be mapped according to custom preferences.

- High: 100%
- Medium: 60%
- Low: 50%
- Custom

When both risk assessments are set to High (100%) the audit risk model is not used to adjust the detection risk.

#### Expected errors
The expected errors are the tolerable errors that can be found in the sample. A sample size is calculated so that, when the number of expected errors is found in the sample, the desired confidence is retained.

- Absolute: Enter your expected errors as a monetary value (e.g., $1.000 in a total balance of $1.000.000).
- Relative: Enter your expected errors as a percentage relative to the total size of the selection.

#### Explanatory text
Enables explanatory text throughout the workflow to help you interpret the statistical results and procedure.

#### Estimation method
The estimation method determines how the results from your sample are extrapolated to the population.

- Beta: Use the beta posterior distribution to evaluate the sample.
- Gamma: Use the gamma posterior distribution to evaluate the sample.
- Beta-binomial: Use the beta-binomial posterior distribution to evaluate the sample.

#### Area under posterior
- Credible bound: Gives an (upper) estimate of the maximum error in the population.
- Credible interval: Gives an (upper and lower) estimate of maximum error in the population.

----

Default output
-------

#### Evaluation summary
This table is the default output for the evaluation stage.

- Materiality: The population materiality.
- Sample size: The size of the selected subset.
- Errors: The number of erroneous elements in the selection.
- Total taining: The sum of the proportional errors.
- x-% Confidence bound: The estimate of the maximum misstatement in percentages.
- Maximum misstatement: The estimate of the projected maximum misstatement.

----

Advanced output (statistics)
-------

#### Most likely error (MLE)
Adds a cell to the evaluation summary table containing an estimate of the errors in the total population.

#### Evidence ratio
Shows the posterior odds (after seeing a sample) in favor of the null hypothesis of tolerable misstatement.

#### Bayes factor
Shows the gain of evidence (after seeing a sample) in favor of the null hypothesis of tolerable misstatement.

----

Advanced output (tables)
-------

#### Prior and posterior descriptives
Produces a table in which the prior and posterior distribution are summarized through several statistics, such as their functional form, their prior and posterior probabilities and odds, and the shift between these.

----


Advanced output (plots)
-------

#### Evaluation information
Produces a bar chart comparing the materiality, maximum misstatement and most likely error (MLE).

#### Correlation plot
Produces a scatter plot comparing book values of the selection against their audit values. Observations that are in error are colored in red.

#### Prior and posterior
Produces a plot that shows the prior distribution alongside the posterior distribution induced by the data.

- x-axis limit: Change the limit for the x-axis in the plot.
- Expected posterior: Adds the expected posterior to the prior graph. The expected posterior has its upper credible bound just below the materiality.
- Additional info: Adds a red dot for the materiality, and a gray dot for the expected errors to the graph.
- Shade: Select which area under the posterior distribution to shade. 

----

R Packages
-------

- jfa

----

References
-------

AICPA (2017). <i>Audit Guide: Audit Sampling</i>. American Institute of Certied Public Accountants.

Derks, K (2020). jfa: Bayesian and Classical Audit Sampling. R package version 0.1.0.

Interdepartementaal Overlegorgaan Departementale Accountantsdiensten (2007). <i>Handboek Auditing Rijksoverheid 2007</i>, established by the Interdepartementaal Overlegorgaan Departementale Accountantsdiensten (IODAD) on March 28, 2006, and May 29, 2007.
