Resources/Help/analyses/equivalencebayesianonesamplettest.md, before:

Equivalence Bayesian One Sample T-Test
===

The equivalence one sample t-test allows the user to estimate the effect size and test the null hypothesis that the population mean falls inside an interval, i.e., the equivalence region. The difference with a standard null hypothesis significance test is that in equivalence testing, the null hypothesis covers a small interval around the test value instead of a point-null.

### Assumptions
- Continuous dependent variable.
- The data are a random sample from the population.
- The dependent variable is normally distributed in the population.

### Input
---

#### Assignment Box
- Variables: In this box the dependent variable is selected.

#### Test value
The null hypothesis that the population mean is equal to the test value.

#### Equivalence region
- Upper bound: The upper bound of the equivalence region.
- Lower bound: The lower bound of the equivalence region.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior and posterior distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as the data come in using the user-defined prior.
  - Robustness check: Adds the results of the sequential analysis using the wide (scale=1) and ultrawide prior (scale=sqrt(2)).

#### Additional Statistics
- Descriptives: Sample size, sample mean, sample standard deviation, standard error of the mean for each measure.

### Missing Values
 - Exclude cases analysis by analysis: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each test will be conducted using all cases with valid data for the dependent variable for the particular t-test. Sample sizes may therefore vary across the tests. This options is selected by default.
 - Exclude cases listwise: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each t-test will be conducted using only cases with valid data for all dependent variables. Sample size is therefore constant across the tests.

### Prior
- Default:
  - Cauchy: Scale of the Cauchy prior distribution on the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the default is 0.707.
- Informed:
  - Cauchy: Scale and location.
  - Normal: Mean and standard deviation.
  - Student's t: Scale, Location and degrees of freedom (df).

### Output
---

#### Equivalence Bayesian One Sample T-Test
- The first column contains the dependent variable.
- Model Comparison:
   - $\delta$ $\in$ I vs. H1: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the interval-null hypothesis to the unconstrained alternative hypothesis.
   - $\delta$ $\notin$ I vs. H1: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the hypothesis that the effect size is outside the interval-null to the unconstrained alternative hypothesis.
   - $\delta$ $\in$ I vs. $\delta$ $\notin$ I: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the interval-null hypothesis to the hypothesis that the effect size falls outside the interval-null.
   - $\delta$ $\notin$ I vs. $\delta$ $\in$ I: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the hypothesis that the effect size falls outside the interval-null to the interval-null hypothesis.
- BF: The Bayes factor.
- error %: The error of the numerical integration used for the computation of the Bayes factor.

#### Descriptives
- The first column contains the dependent variable.
- N: The sample size.
- Mean: The mean of the dependent variable.
- SD: Standard deviation of the mean.
- SE: Standard error of the mean.
- Credible interval: Central credible interval. Default is 95%.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior (dashed line) and posterior (solid line) distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis. The grey areas represents the equivalence region of the prior and the posterior density. The horizontal solid line represents the width of the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
  - Additional info: Displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the equivalence vs. non-equivalence hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of observations (n) using the user-defined prior; displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the equivalence vs. non-equivalence hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution; shows the decisiveness of the evidence in terms of Jeffreys' (1961) evidence categories.

### References
---
- Morey, R. D., & Rouder, J. N. (2011). Bayes factor approaches for testing interval null hypotheses. *Psychological methods*, 16(4), 406. <a href="https://psycnet.apa.org/buy/2011-15467-001">https://psycnet.apa.org/buy/2011-15467-001</a>
- Gronau, Q. F., Ly, A., & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (in press). Informed Bayesian t-tests. *The American Statistician*. <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479">https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479</a>
- Jeffreys, H. (1961).  *Theory of probability (3rd ed.)*. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.

### R-packages
---
- stats
- metaBMA

Commit message:

Updated prior posterior plot (#3984)
* Updated prior posterior plot

X-axis effect size added

* Added density table

Added a table with the densities over the prior and posterior in the equivalence and non-equivalence interval

* Update grammar error in helpful

* Changed helpfiles

* Update JASP-Engine/JASP/R/equivalencebayesianpairedsamplesttest.R

Co-Authored-By: Don van den Bergh <donvdbergh@hotmail.com>

* Update JASP-Engine/JASP/R/equivalencebayesianonesamplettest.R

Co-Authored-By: Don van den Bergh <donvdbergh@hotmail.com>

* Update JASP-Engine/JASP/R/equivalencebayesianindependentsamplesttest.R

Co-Authored-By: Don van den Bergh <donvdbergh@hotmail.com>

* Inferiority testing

Incorporated Don's feedback and added inferiority testing to the Bayesian equivalence testing

* change table name

From density to mass

* helpfiles changed

* gettext()

* dependencies fixed

Added new dependencies

* Incorporated feedback don

Posterior and prior plot were not showing when the Bayes Factor was infinity. Now a plot displays with a warning.

Co-authored-by: Don van den Bergh <donvdbergh@hotmail.com>

Resources/Help/analyses/equivalencebayesianonesamplettest.md, after:

Equivalence Bayesian One Sample T-Test
===

The equivalence one sample t-test allows the user to test the null hypothesis that the effect size of the population mean falls inside a by the user-defined interval, i.e., the equivalence region.

### Assumptions
- Continuous dependent variable.
- The data are a random sample from the population.
- The dependent variable is normally distributed in the population.

### Input
---

#### Assignment Box
- Variables: In this box the dependent variable is selected.

#### Test value
The null hypothesis that the population mean is equal to the test value.

#### Equivalence region
- from ... to ... : Defines the equivalence region by specifying the lower bound and the upper bound.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior and posterior distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as the data come in using the user-defined prior.
  - Robustness check: Adds the results of the sequential analysis using the wide (scale=1) and ultrawide prior (scale=sqrt(2)).

#### Additional Statistics
- Descriptives: Sample size, sample mean, sample standard deviation, standard error of the mean for each measure.
- Prior and posterior mass: Displays the prior and posterior mass in and outside the set equivalence region.

### Missing Values
 - Exclude cases analysis by analysis: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each test will be conducted using all cases with valid data for the dependent variable for the particular t-test. Sample sizes may therefore vary across the tests. This options is selected by default.
 - Exclude cases listwise: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each t-test will be conducted using only cases with valid data for all dependent variables. Sample size is therefore constant across the tests.

### Prior
- Default:
  - Cauchy: Scale of the Cauchy prior distribution on the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the default is 0.707.
- Informed:
  - Cauchy: Scale and location.
  - Normal: Mean and standard deviation.
  - Student's t: Scale, Location and degrees of freedom (df).

### Output
---

#### Equivalence Bayesian One Sample T-Test
- The first column contains the dependent variable.
- Model Comparison:
   - &delta; &in; I vs. H<sub>1</sub>: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the interval-null hypothesis to the unconstrained alternative hypothesis.
   - &delta; &notin; I vs. H<sub>1</sub>: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the hypothesis that the effect size is outside the interval-null to the unconstrained alternative hypothesis.
   - &delta; &in; I vs. &delta; &notin; I: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the interval-null hypothesis to the hypothesis that the effect size falls outside the interval-null.
   - &delta; &notin; I vs. &delta; &in; I: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the hypothesis that the effect size falls outside the interval-null to the interval-null hypothesis.
- BF: The Bayes factor.
- error %: The error of the numerical integration used for the computation of the Bayes factor.

#### Descriptives
- The first column contains the dependent variable.
- N: The sample size.
- Mean: The mean of the dependent variable.
- SD: Standard deviation of the mean.
- SE: Standard error of the mean.
- Credible interval: Central credible interval. Default is 95%.

#### Prior and Posterior Mass Table
- The first column contains the dependent variable.
- Section: The section under which the mass is calculated.
- Mass: Displays the mass under the specified section.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior (dashed line) and posterior (solid line) distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis. The grey areas represents the equivalence region of the prior and the posterior density. The horizontal solid line represents the width of the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
  - Additional info: Displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the equivalence vs. non-equivalence hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of observations (n) using the user-defined prior; displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the equivalence vs. non-equivalence hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution; shows the decisiveness of the evidence in terms of Jeffreys' (1961) evidence categories.

### References
---
- Morey, R. D., & Rouder, J. N. (2011). Bayes factor approaches for testing interval null hypotheses. *Psychological methods*, 16(4), 406. <a href="https://psycnet.apa.org/buy/2011-15467-001">https://psycnet.apa.org/buy/2011-15467-001</a>
- Gronau, Q. F., Ly, A., & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (in press). Informed Bayesian t-tests. *The American Statistician*. <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479">https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479</a>
- Jeffreys, H. (1961).  *Theory of probability (3rd ed.)*. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.

### R-packages
---
- stats
- metaBMA
