Resources/Help/analyses/ttestbayesianindependentsamples.md, before:

Bayesian Independent Samples T-Test
===
The independent samples t-test allows the user to estimate the effect size and test the null hypothesis that the population means of two independent groups are equal. 

### Assumptions
---

- Continuous dependent variable.
- The observations in both groups are a random sample from the population.
- The dependent variable is normally distributed in both populations.
- The population variances in the two groups are homogeneous.


### Input
---

#### Assignment Box 
- Variables: In this box the dependent variable is selected.  
- Grouping Variable: In this box the variable defining the groups is selected. 

#### Hypothesis
-  Group 1 &ne; Group 2 : Two-sided alternative hypothesis that the population means are equal.
-  Group 1 &gt; Group 2 : One-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of group one is larger than the population mean of group two.
-  Group 1 &lt; Group 2 : One-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of group one is smaller than the population mean of group two.

#### Bayes Factor
-  BF10 : Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the alternative hypothesis relative to the null hypothesis.
-  BF01 : Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the null hypothesis relative to the alternative hypothesis.
-  Log(BF10) : Natural logarithm of BF10.

#### Additional Statistics
-  Descriptives : Sample size, sample mean, sample standard deviation, standard error of the mean for each group.

#### Missing Values
- Exclude cases per dependent variable: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each test will be conducted using all cases with valid data for the dependent variable for the particular t-test. Sample sizes may therefore vary across the multiple t-tests.
- Exclude cases listwise: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each t-test will be conducted using only cases with valid data for all dependent variables. Sample size is therefore constant across the multiple t-tests.

#### Repeatability
- Set seed: Gives the option to set a seed for your analysis. Setting a seed will exclude random processes influencing an analysis.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior and posterior distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size.
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The scale of the Cauchy prior is varied between 0 and 1.5, creating progressively more uninformative priors.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as the data come in using the user-defined prior.
  - Robustness check: Adds the results of the sequential analysis using the wide (scale=1) and ultrawide prior (scale=sqrt(2)).
- Descriptives plots
  - Credible interval: Display central credible intervals. Default is 95%.


### Prior
- Default:
  - Cauchy: Scale of the Cauchy prior distribution on the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the default is 0.707.
- Informed:
  -  Cauchy: Scale and location.
  - Normal: Mean and standard deviation.
  - Student's t: Scale, Location and degrees of freedom (df).

### Output
---

#### Bayesian Independent Samples T-Test
- Bayes factor: If a one-sided test is requested:
  - BF+0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one > group two, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF-0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one < group two, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF0+: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one > group two.
  - BF0-: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one < group two.
- error %: The error of the Gaussian quadrature integration routine used for the computation of the Bayes factor.

#### Group Descriptives
- N: Sample size.
- Mean: Sample mean.
- SD: Sample standard deviation.
- SE: Standard error of the mean.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior (dashed line) and posterior (solid line) distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the gray circles represent the height of the prior and the posterior density at effect size delta = 0. The horizontal solid line represents the width of the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
  - Additional info: Displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of observations (n) using the user-defined prior; displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution; shows the decisiveness of the evidence in terms of Jeffreys' (1961) evidence categories.
  - Robustness check: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of data points (n) using the wide and ultrawide prior distribution. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior distribution; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior distribution; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior distribution.
- Descriptives plots
  - Credible interval: Central credible interval. Default is 95%.


### References
---
- Gronau, Q. F., Ly, A., & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (in press). Informed Bayesian t-tests. *The American Statistician*. <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479">https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479</a>
- Jeffreys, H. (1961).  *Theory of probability (3rd ed.)*. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
- Morey, R. D., Rouder, J. N., Pratte, M. S., & Speckman, P. L. (2011). Using MCMC chain outputs to efficiently estimate Bayes factors.  *Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 55*, 368-378.
- Rouder, J. N., Speckman, P. L., Sun, D., Morey, R. D., & Iverson, G. (2009). Bayesian t-tests for accepting and rejecting the null hypothesis.  *Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 16*, 225-237.
- van Doorn, J., Ly, A., Marsman, M., & Wagenmakers, E. J. (2019). Bayesian Rank-Based Hypothesis Testing for the Rank Sum Test, the Signed Rank Test, and Spearman's rho. Manuscript submitted for publication and uploaded to arXiv: <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06941">https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06941</a> 


### R Packages
---
- BayesFactor
- ggplot2
- logspline
- stats

Commit message:

Update help files Bayesian Wilcoxon t-test

Resources/Help/analyses/ttestbayesianindependentsamples.md, after:

Bayesian Independent Samples T-Test
===
The independent samples t-test allows the user to estimate the effect size and test the null hypothesis that the population means of two independent groups are equal. 

### Assumptions
---

- Continuous dependent variable.
- The observations in both groups are a random sample from the population.
- The dependent variable is normally distributed in both populations.
- The population variances in the two groups are homogeneous.


### Input
---

#### Assignment Box 
- Variables: In this box the dependent variable is selected.  
- Grouping Variable: In this box the variable defining the groups is selected. 

#### Hypothesis
-  Group 1 &ne; Group 2 : Two-sided alternative hypothesis that the population means are equal.
-  Group 1 &gt; Group 2 : One-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of group one is larger than the population mean of group two.
-  Group 1 &lt; Group 2 : One-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of group one is smaller than the population mean of group two.

#### Bayes Factor
-  BF10 : Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the alternative hypothesis relative to the null hypothesis.
-  BF01 : Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the null hypothesis relative to the alternative hypothesis.
-  Log(BF10) : Natural logarithm of BF10.

#### Tests 
- Student: Student's t-test. This option is selected by default. 
- Mann-Whitney: Mann-Whitney test. 
  - No. samples: The number of MCMC samples to use.
  
#### Additional Statistics
-  Descriptives : Sample size, sample mean, sample standard deviation, standard error of the mean for each group.

#### Missing Values
- Exclude cases per dependent variable: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each test will be conducted using all cases with valid data for the dependent variable for the particular t-test. Sample sizes may therefore vary across the multiple t-tests.
- Exclude cases listwise: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each t-test will be conducted using only cases with valid data for all dependent variables. Sample size is therefore constant across the multiple t-tests.

#### Repeatability
- Set seed: Gives the option to set a seed for your analysis. Setting a seed will exclude random processes influencing an analysis.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior and posterior distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size.
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The scale of the Cauchy prior is varied between 0 and 1.5, creating progressively more uninformative priors.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as the data come in using the user-defined prior.
  - Robustness check: Adds the results of the sequential analysis using the wide (scale=1) and ultrawide prior (scale=sqrt(2)).
- Descriptives plots
  - Credible interval: Display central credible intervals. Default is 95%.


### Prior
- Default:
  - Cauchy: Scale of the Cauchy prior distribution on the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the default is 0.707.
- Informed:
  -  Cauchy: Scale and location.
  - Normal: Mean and standard deviation.
  - Student's t: Scale, Location and degrees of freedom (df).

### Output
---

#### Bayesian Independent Samples T-Test
- Bayes factor: If a one-sided test is requested:
  - BF+0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one > group two, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF-0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one < group two, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF0+: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one > group two.
  - BF0-: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that group one < group two.
- error %: The error of the Gaussian quadrature integration routine used for the computation of the Bayes factor.
- W: The test statistic of the Wilcoxon test.
- Rhat: A measure of MCMC convergence for the Wilcoxon test. The ratio of within chain variance and total variance of the MCMC chains for the delta parameter. Values equal to 1 indicate convergence.

#### Group Descriptives
- N: Sample size.
- Mean: Sample mean.
- SD: Sample standard deviation.
- SE: Standard error of the mean.

#### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior (dashed line) and posterior (solid line) distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the gray circles represent the height of the prior and the posterior density at effect size delta = 0. The horizontal solid line represents the width of the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
  - Additional info: Displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of observations (n) using the user-defined prior; displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution; shows the decisiveness of the evidence in terms of Jeffreys' (1961) evidence categories.
  - Robustness check: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of data points (n) using the wide and ultrawide prior distribution. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior distribution; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior distribution; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior distribution.
- Descriptives plots
  - Credible interval: Central credible interval. Default is 95%.


### References
---
- Gronau, Q. F., Ly, A., & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (in press). Informed Bayesian t-tests. *The American Statistician*. <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479">https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479</a>
- Jeffreys, H. (1961).  *Theory of probability (3rd ed.)*. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
- Morey, R. D., Rouder, J. N., Pratte, M. S., & Speckman, P. L. (2011). Using MCMC chain outputs to efficiently estimate Bayes factors.  *Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 55*, 368-378.
- Rouder, J. N., Speckman, P. L., Sun, D., Morey, R. D., & Iverson, G. (2009). Bayesian t-tests for accepting and rejecting the null hypothesis.  *Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 16*, 225-237.
- van Doorn, J, Ly, A, Marsman, M, & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (2020). Bayesian rank-based hypothesis testing for the rank sum test, the signed rank test, and Spearman's rho. *Journal of Applied Statistics*.



### R Packages
---
- BayesFactor
- ggplot2
- logspline
- stats
