Resources/Help/analyses/ttestbayesianpairedsamples.md, before:

Bayesian Paired Samples T-Test
===

The paired samples t-test allows you to estimate the effect size  and test the null hypothesis that the population mean of the difference between paired observations equals 0.


### Assumptions
- Continuous difference score.
- The difference scores are a random sample from the population.
- The difference scores are normally distributed in the population.


### Input
---

#### Assignment Box 
- Variables: In this box the variables are selected for which the difference is computed. Multiple differences can be analysed at the same time by specifying different rows with two variables for which the difference is computed. In other words, each row represents other difference scores. 

#### Hypothesis
- Measure 1 &ne; Measure 2: Two-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of the difference is not equal to 0.
- Measure 1 &gt; Measure 2: One-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of the difference is larger than 0.
- Measure 1 &lt; Measure 2: One sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of the difference is smaller than 0.

#### Bayes Factor
- BF10: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the alternative hypothesis relative to the null hypothesis.
- BF01: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the null hypothesis relative to the alternative hypothesis.
- Log(BF10): Natural logarithm of BF10.

#### Additional Statistics
- Descriptives: Sample size, sample mean, sample standard deviation, standard error of the mean for each measure.

### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior and posterior distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The scale of the Cauchy prior is varied between 0 and 1.5, creating progressively more uninformative priors.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as the data come in using the user-defined prior.
  - Robustness check: Adds the results of the sequential analysis using the wide (scale=1) and ultrawide prior (scale=sqrt(2)).
- Descriptives plots:
  - Credible interval: Default is 95%.

#### Missing Values
- Exclude cases per dependent variable: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each test will be conducted using all cases with valid data for the difference score for the particular t-test. Sample sizes may therefore vary across the multiple t-tests.
- Exclude cases listwise: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each t-test will be conducted using only cases with valid data for all difference scores. Sample size is therefore constant across the multiple t-tests.

### Prior
- Default:
  - Cauchy: Scale of the Cauchy prior distribution on effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the default is 0.707.
- Informed:
  - Cauchy: Scale and location.
  - Normal: Mean and standard deviation.
  - Student's t: Scale, location and degrees of freedom (df).



### Output
---
#### Bayesian Paired Samples T-Test:
- Bayes factor: If one-sided test is requested:
  - BF+0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is larger than 0, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF-0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is smaller than 0, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF0+: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is larger than 0.
  - BF0-: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is smaller than 0.
- error %: The error of the Gaussian quadrature integration routine used for the computation of the Bayes factor.

#### Descriptives:
- N: Sample size
- Mean: Sample mean
- SD: Sample standard deviation
- SE: Standard error of the mean

#### Plots:
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior (dashed line) and posterior (solid line) distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the gray circles represent the height of the prior and the posterior density at effect size delta = 0. The horizontal solid line represents the width of the 95% credible interval of the posterior.
  - Additional info: Displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of observations (n) using the user-defined prior; displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution; shows the decisiveness of the evidence in terms of Jeffreys' (1961) evidence categories.
  - Robustness check: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of data points (n) using the wide and ultrawide prior distribution. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior distribution; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior distribution; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior distribution.
- Descriptives plots
  - Credible interval: Default is 95%.


### References
--- 
- Gronau, Q. F., Ly, A., & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (in press). Informed Bayesian t-tests. *The American Statistician*. <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479">https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479</a>
- Jeffreys, H. (1961). *Theory of probability (3rd ed.)*. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
- Morey, R. D., Rouder, J. N., Pratte, M. S., & Speckman, P. L. (2011). Using MCMC chain outputs to efficiently estimate Bayes factors. *Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 55*, 368-378.
- Rouder, J. N., Speckman, P. L., Sun, D., Morey, R. D., & Iverson, G. (2009). Bayesian t-tests for accepting and rejecting the null hypothesis. *Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 16*, 225-237.

### R-packages 
---
- BayesFactor
- ggplot2
- logspline
- stats

Commit message:

Update help files Bayesian Wilcoxon t-test  (#4188)
* Update help files Bayesian Wilcoxon t-test

* incorporated Lexi feedback

* Dakje voor R

Resources/Help/analyses/ttestbayesianpairedsamples.md, after:

Bayesian Paired Samples T-Test
===

The paired samples t-test allows you to estimate the effect size  and test the null hypothesis that the population mean of the difference between paired observations equals 0.


### Assumptions
- Continuous difference score.
- The difference scores are a random sample from the population.
- The difference scores are normally distributed in the population.


### Input
---

#### Assignment Box 
- Variables: In this box the variables are selected for which the difference is computed. Multiple differences can be analysed at the same time by specifying different rows with two variables for which the difference is computed. In other words, each row represents other difference scores. 

#### Hypothesis
- Measure 1 &ne; Measure 2: Two-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of the difference is not equal to 0.
- Measure 1 &gt; Measure 2: One-sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of the difference is larger than 0.
- Measure 1 &lt; Measure 2: One sided alternative hypothesis that the population mean of the difference is smaller than 0.

#### Bayes Factor
- BF10: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the alternative hypothesis relative to the null hypothesis.
- BF01: Bayes factor to quantify evidence for the null hypothesis relative to the alternative hypothesis.
- Log(BF10): Natural logarithm of BF10.

#### Tests 
- Student: Student's t-test. This option is selected by default. 
- Wilcoxon signed-rank: Wilcoxon signed-rank test. 
  - No. samples: The number of MCMC samples to use.

#### Additional Statistics
- Descriptives: Sample size, sample mean, sample standard deviation, standard error of the mean for each measure.

### Plots
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior and posterior distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis.
  - Additional info: Adds the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; adds a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; adds the median and the 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution of the effect size
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The scale of the Cauchy prior is varied between 0 and 1.5, creating progressively more uninformative priors.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as the data come in using the user-defined prior.
  - Robustness check: Adds the results of the sequential analysis using the wide (scale=1) and ultrawide prior (scale=sqrt(2)).
- Descriptives plots:
  - Credible interval: Default is 95%.

#### Missing Values
- Exclude cases per dependent variable: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each test will be conducted using all cases with valid data for the difference score for the particular t-test. Sample sizes may therefore vary across the multiple t-tests.
- Exclude cases listwise: In case of multiple t-tests within a single analysis, each t-test will be conducted using only cases with valid data for all difference scores. Sample size is therefore constant across the multiple t-tests.

### Prior
- Default:
  - Cauchy: Scale of the Cauchy prior distribution on effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the default is 0.707.
- Informed:
  - Cauchy: Scale and location.
  - Normal: Mean and standard deviation.
  - Student's t: Scale, location and degrees of freedom (df).



### Output
---
#### Bayesian Paired Samples T-Test:
- Bayes factor: If one-sided test is requested:
  - BF+0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is larger than 0, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF-0: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is smaller than 0, relative to the null hypothesis.
  - BF0+: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is larger than 0.
  - BF0-: Bayes factor that quantifies evidence for the null hypothesis, relative to the one-sided alternative hypothesis that the difference is smaller than 0.
- error %: The error of the Gaussian quadrature integration routine used for the computation of the Bayes factor.
- W: The test statistic of the signed rank test.
- Rhat: A measure of MCMC convergence for the Wilcoxon test. A ratio comparing the between- and within-chain variance of the MCMC estimates for the delta parameter. Values less than or equal to 1 indicate convergence.

#### Descriptives:
- N: Sample size
- Mean: Sample mean
- SD: Sample standard deviation
- SE: Standard error of the mean

#### Plots:
- Prior and posterior: Displays the prior (dashed line) and posterior (solid line) distribution of the effect size under the alternative hypothesis; the gray circles represent the height of the prior and the posterior density at effect size delta = 0. The horizontal solid line represents the width of the 95% credible interval of the posterior.
  - Additional info: Displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution.
- Bayes factor robustness check: Displays the Bayes factor as a function of the width of the Cauchy prior on effect size. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior.
- Sequential analysis: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of observations (n) using the user-defined prior; displays the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior; displays a probability wheel depicting the odds of the data under the null vs. alternative hypothesis; displays the median and 95% credible interval of the posterior distribution; shows the decisiveness of the evidence in terms of Jeffreys' (1961) evidence categories.
  - Robustness check: Displays the development of the Bayes factor as a function of the number of data points (n) using the wide and ultrawide prior distribution. The black circle represents the Bayes factor computed with a wide prior distribution; the white circle represents the Bayes factor computed with an ultrawide prior distribution; the gray circle represents the Bayes factor computed with the user-defined prior distribution.
- Descriptives plots
  - Credible interval: Default is 95%.


### References
--- 
- Gronau, Q. F., Ly, A., & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (in press). Informed Bayesian t-tests. *The American Statistician*. <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479">https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.02479</a>
- Jeffreys, H. (1961). *Theory of probability (3rd ed.)*. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
- Morey, R. D., Rouder, J. N., Pratte, M. S., & Speckman, P. L. (2011). Using MCMC chain outputs to efficiently estimate Bayes factors. *Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 55*, 368-378.
- Rouder, J. N., Speckman, P. L., Sun, D., Morey, R. D., & Iverson, G. (2009). Bayesian t-tests for accepting and rejecting the null hypothesis. *Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 16*, 225-237.
- van Doorn, J, Ly, A, Marsman, M, & Wagenmakers, E.-J. (2020). Bayesian rank-based hypothesis testing for the rank sum test, the signed rank test, and Spearman's rho. *Journal of Applied Statistics*.

### R-packages 
---
- BayesFactor
- ggplot2
- logspline
- stats
